The Title X Family Planning Services grant program provides critical family planning and preventative health services to families throughout the United States. Supported services include individualized counseling, pregnancy testing, provision of methods and services to help couples achieve their desired family size, sexually transmitted infection testing, and cervical cancer screenings. The program prioritizes services for families with low incomes, who might otherwise lack access to family planning assistance.

As a condition of their grant agreements, all Title X grantees must collect and report annual data on their clients and services. The Office of Population Affairs (OPA) uses these data for (1) reporting to Congress on the Title X grant program through the Family Planning Annual Report (FPAR); (2) monitoring grantees’ performance and compliance with legislative mandates; (3) disseminating information on the Title X program to the public and key stakeholders in the public health community; and (4) supporting data-driven decision making and program improvement. The data also inform efforts that help OPA deliver high-quality care, expand access to family planning services, and advance health equity through the Title X program. Grantees use the data to (1) better understand their client populations; (2) identify potential needs for wraparound program services; and (3) highlight program successes for clients, program staff, state and local administrators, and stakeholders. 


###	About FPAR 2.0

[FPAR 2.0](https://fpar.opa.hhs.gov/) is a data collection and reporting system designed for Title X grantees to provide the requisite service data for the FPAR. FPAR 2.0 is a secure data management system. The system is accessible only to authorized users. Each authorized account is assigned a role that defines what features and actions users are allowed to view and perform in the system.